Generating Delaunay triangulations
==================================

Triangle's default behavior is to find the Delaunay triangulation of a set of
vertices. The command below produces the Delaunay triangulation, also
illustrated below.

.. plot:: plot/delaunay1.py
    :include-source:

To triangulate a PSLG instead, describe the geometry of the region you wish to
mesh in a python dictionar, such as `get_data('face')`, illustrated below. Use
the -p switch to specify that the input is a PSLG rather than a vertex set. The
command:: 

   trianglulate(get_data('face'), 'p')
   
will produce the constrained Delaunay triangulation, with holes and concavities
removed. (The mouth and eye holes are specified in the input file; the
concavities are removed automatically.)

.. plot:: plot/holes_cavities.py
    :include-source:

The automatic removal of concavities from the triangulation will be detrimental
if you have not taken care to surround the area to be triangulated with
segments. In the next example, the input file box.poly defines an open region,
so the -c switch must be used to prevent the automatic removal of concavities
(which would eliminate the whole triangulation). ::

   trianglulate(get_data('box'), 'pc')

produces the constrained Delaunay triangulation illustrated below. The -c switch
causes Triangle to triangulate the convex hull of the PSLG.

.. plot:: plot/constrained_delaunay1.py
    :include-source:

A conforming constrained Delaunay triangulation of a PSLG can be generated by
use of the -q, -a, or -u switch, in addition to the -p switch. If you don't
wish to enforce any angle or area constraints, use `-q0`, which requests
quality meshing with a minimum angle of zero. The result is demonstrated
below.::


   trianglulate(get_data('face'), 'pq10')


.. plot:: plot/constrained_conforming_delaunay1.py
    :include-source:

A conforming Delaunay triangulation of a PSLG can be generated as above, with
the addition of the -D switch to ensure that all the triangles of the final
mesh are Delaunay (and not just constrained Delaunay).::

   trianglulate(get_data('face'), 'pq0D')



.. plot:: plot/conforming_delaunay1.py
    :include-source:

